Add a document for leveraging Advanced Matrix Extensions (#2439)
pytorch/tutorials: recipes_source/amx.rst

For more detailed information of AMX, see `Intel® AMX Overview`_.

AMX in PyTorch
==============

PyTorch leverages AMX for computing intensive operators with BFloat16 and quantization with INT8 by its backend oneDNN
to get higher performance out-of-box on x86 CPUs with AMX support.
For more detailed information of oneDNN, see `oneDNN`_.

The operation is fully handled by oneDNN according to the execution code path generated. I.e. when a supported operation gets executed into oneDNN implementation on a hardware platform with AMX support, AMX instructions will be invoked automatically inside oneDNN.
No manual operations are required to enable this feature. 

- BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``bmm``,
``mm``,
``baddbmm``,
``addmm``,
``addbmm``,
``linear``,
``matmul``,
``_convolution``

- Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,

> ``linear``

Reviewer: I guess we need a special note for quantized linear here that whether AMX kernel is chosen also depends on the policy of the quantization backend. Currently, the x86 quant backend uses fbgemm, not onednn while users can use onednn backend to turn on AMX for linear op. cc @Xia-Weiwen

In general, it is also true that whether to dispatch to AMX kernels is a backend/library choice. The backend/library would choose the most optimal kernels. It is worth noting in this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: Yes. However, I am not sure if it's OK to give such details in tutorial. 🤔

==============================================
Leverage Advanced Matrix Extensions
==============================================

Introduction
============

Advanced Matrix Extensions (AMX), also known as Intel® Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel® AMX), is an extension to the x86 instruction set architecture (ISA).
Intel advances AI capabilities with 4th Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors and Intel® AMX, delivering 3x to 10x higher inference and training performance versus the previous generation, see `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.

> AMX supports two data types, INT8 and BFloat16, compared to AVX512 FP32, it can achieve up to 32x and 16x acceleration, respectively, see figure 6 of `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.

Reviewer 3: we can directly copy the wording from

```
Compared to 3rd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors running Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 Neural Network Instructions (Intel® AVX-512 VNNI), 4th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors running Intel AMX can perform 2,048 INT8 operations per cycle, rather than 256 INT8 operations per cycle. They can also perform 1,024 BF16 operations per cycle, as compared to 64 FP32 operations per cycle.
```

which is a quote from https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/docs/accelerator-engines/advanced-matrix-extensions/ai-solution-brief.html

Author: Quoted this.

For more detailed information of AMX, see `Intel® AMX Overview`_.

AMX in PyTorch
==============

PyTorch leverages AMX for computing intensive operators with BFloat16 and quantization with INT8 by its backend oneDNN
to get higher performance out-of-box on x86 CPUs with AMX support.
For more detailed information of oneDNN, see `oneDNN`_.

The operation is fully handled by oneDNN according to the execution code path generated. I.e. when a supported operation gets executed into oneDNN implementation on a hardware platform with AMX support, AMX instructions will be invoked automatically inside oneDNN.
Since oneDNN is the default acceleration library for CPU, no manual operations are required to enable the AMX support.

- BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``bmm``,
``mm``,
``baddbmm``,
``addmm``,
``addbmm``,
``linear``,
``matmul``,

> ``_convolution``

Reviewer 3: `_convolution` is not intended to be directly used, start with a `_`

Author: Removed `_convolution `.

- Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,

> ``conv1d``,

Reviewer 3: why we have 2 sets of `conv1d`, `conv2d`, `conv3d` here

Author: Fixed typos.

==============================================
Leverage Advanced Matrix Extensions
==============================================

Introduction
============

> Advanced Matrix Extensions (AMX), also known as Intel® Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel® AMX), is an extension to the x86 instruction set architecture (ISA).

Reviewer 4: I realize AMX is lower level than other Intel technologies but it's still worth rationalizing to an end user in a few lines why it's interesting for them to know about AMX vs Intel compiler technologies

Author: Added more introduction to AMX and the benefits it can bring.

Intel advances AI capabilities with 4th Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors and Intel® AMX, delivering 3x to 10x higher inference and training performance versus the previous generation, see `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.

> AMX supports two data types, INT8 and BFloat16, compared to AVX512 FP32, it can achieve up to 32x and 16x acceleration, respectively, see figure 6 of `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.

Reviewer 4: Are the speedups only on some particular newer hardware? Is the hardware consumer or enterprise centric?

Reviewer 3: AMX is only available from the 4th gen of Xeon (codename  sapphire rapids), it is enterprise centric.

For more detailed information of oneDNN, see `oneDNN`_.

The operation is fully handled by oneDNN according to the execution code path generated. I.e. when a supported operation gets executed into oneDNN implementation on a hardware platform with AMX support, AMX instructions will be invoked automatically inside oneDNN.
Since oneDNN is the default acceleration library for CPU, no manual operations are required to enable the AMX support.

- BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``bmm``,
``mm``,
``baddbmm``,
``addmm``,
``addbmm``,
``linear``,
``matmul``,
``_convolution``

- Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``linear``

Note: For quantized linear, whether to leverage AMX depends on which quantization backend to choose.
At present, x86 quantization backend is used by default for quantized linear, using fbgemm, while users can specify onednn backend to turn on AMX for quantized linear.

> Guidelines of leveraging AMX with workloads

Reviewer 4: I would start with this section on how to use it and have the supported ops show up at the bottm

Author: Thanks for your suggestion. Do you mean to move this section above the supported ops ? Like this：
AMX in PyTorch
   Guidelines of leveraging AMX with workloads
   List supported ops
   ...

--------------------------------------------------

- BFloat16 data type: 

Using ``torch.cpu.amp`` or ``torch.autocast("cpu")`` would utilize AMX acceleration.

::

   model = model.to(memory_format=torch.channels_last)
   with torch.cpu.amp.autocast():
       output = model(input)

Note: Use channels last format to get better performance. 

- quantization:

Applying quantization would utilize AMX acceleration.

- torch.compile:

When the generated graph model runs into oneDNN implementations with the supported operators mentioned in lists above, AMX accelerations will be activated.

Confirm AMX is being utilized
------------------------------

> Set environment variable ``export ONEDNN_VERBOSE=1`` to get oneDNN verbose at runtime.

Reviewer 4: it would be nice to have some python function like `is_x_available()`

Author: Add a python function `torch.backends.mkldnn.verbose`.

Guidelines of leveraging AMX with workloads
-------------------------------------------

- BFloat16 data type: 

Using ``torch.cpu.amp`` or ``torch.autocast("cpu")`` would utilize AMX acceleration for supported operators.

::

   model = model.to(memory_format=torch.channels_last)
   with torch.cpu.amp.autocast():
       output = model(input)

Note: Use channels last format to get better performance. 

- quantization:

Applying quantization would utilize AMX acceleration for supported operators.

- torch.compile:

When the generated graph model runs into oneDNN implementations with the supported operators, AMX accelerations will be activated.

CPU operators that can leverage AMX:
------------------------------------

- BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``bmm``,
``mm``,
``baddbmm``,
``addmm``,
``addbmm``,
``linear``,
``matmul``,

- Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

``conv1d``,
``conv2d``,
``conv3d``,
``conv_transpose1d``,
``conv_transpose2d``,
``conv_transpose3d``,
``linear``

> Note: For quantized linear, whether to leverage AMX depends on the policy of the quantization backend.

Reviewer: Suggest to move this note to `Guidelines of leveraging AMX with workloads` and make it more general like:
```
Note: When you use PyTorch on a CPU that supports AMX, the framework will automatically enable AMX usage by default. This means that PyTorch will attempt to leverage the AMX feature whenever possible to speed up matrix multiplication operations. However, it's important to note that the decision to dispatch to the AMX kernel ultimately depends on the internal optimization strategy of the oneDNN library and the quantization backend, which PyTorch relies on for performance enhancements.
```

Reviewer: Also, you may consider to add the following caveat: "It's worth noting that the specific details of how AMX utilization is handled internally by PyTorch and the oneDNN library may be subject to change with updates and improvements to the framework."

Author: Thanks for your suggestions. Applied the changes.

Intel advances AI capabilities with 4th Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors and Intel® AMX, delivering 3x to 10x higher inference and training performance versus the previous generation, see `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.
Compared to 3rd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors running Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 Neural Network Instructions (Intel® AVX-512 VNNI),
4th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors running Intel AMX can perform 2,048 INT8 operations per cycle, rather than 256 INT8 operations per cycle. They can also perform 1,024 BF16 operations per cycle, as compared to 64 FP32 operations per cycle, see page 4 of `Accelerate AI Workloads with Intel® AMX`_.
For more detailed information of AMX, see `Intel® AMX Overview`_.

AMX in PyTorch
==============

PyTorch leverages AMX for computing intensive operators with BFloat16 and quantization with INT8 by its backend oneDNN
to get higher performance out-of-box on x86 CPUs with AMX support.
For more detailed information of oneDNN, see `oneDNN`_.

> The operation is fully handled by oneDNN according to the execution code path generated. I.e. when a supported operation gets executed into oneDNN implementation on a hardware platform with AMX support, AMX instructions will be invoked automatically inside oneDNN.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The operation is fully handled by oneDNN according to the execution code path generated. For example, when a supported operation gets executed into oneDNN implementation on a hardware platform with AMX support, AMX instructions will be invoked automatically inside oneDNN.
```

Author: Thanks for your comments.
Fixed.

Since oneDNN is the default acceleration library for PyTorch CPU, no manual operations are required to enable the AMX support.

Guidelines of leveraging AMX with workloads
-------------------------------------------

> 

Author: Fixed.

- BFloat16 data type: 

Using ``torch.cpu.amp`` or ``torch.autocast("cpu")`` would utilize AMX acceleration for supported operators.

::

   model = model.to(memory_format=torch.channels_last)
   with torch.cpu.amp.autocast():

>        output = model(input)

Author: Fixed

> Note: Use channels last format to get better performance. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
.. note:: Use channels' last format to get better performance. 
```

Author: Fixed

- Quantization:

> Applying quantization would utilize AMX acceleration for supported operators.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Applying quantization would utilize AMX acceleration for supported operators.
```

Author: Fixed

- torch.compile:

> When the generated graph model runs into oneDNN implementations with the supported operators, AMX accelerations will be activated.

Author: Fixed

> Note: When using PyTorch on CPUs that support AMX, the framework will automatically enable AMX usage by default.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
..  note:: When using PyTorch on CPUs that support AMX, the framework will automatically enable AMX usage by default.
```

Author: Fixed

This means that PyTorch will attempt to leverage the AMX feature whenever possible to speed up matrix multiplication operations.
However, it's important to note that the decision to dispatch to the AMX kernel ultimately depends on
the internal optimization strategy of the oneDNN library and the quantization backend, which PyTorch relies on for performance enhancements.
The specific details of how AMX utilization is handled internally by PyTorch and the oneDNN library may be subject to change with updates and improvements to the framework.

CPU operators that can leverage AMX:
------------------------------------

> - BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:
> 
> ``conv1d``,
> ``conv2d``,
> ``conv3d``,
> ``conv_transpose1d``,
> ``conv_transpose2d``,
> ``conv_transpose3d``,
> ``bmm``,
> ``mm``,
> ``baddbmm``,
> ``addmm``,
> ``addbmm``,
> ``linear``,
> ``matmul``,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
BF16 CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

- ``conv1d``
- ``conv2d``
- ``conv3d``
- ``conv_transpose1d``
- ``conv_transpose2d``
- ``conv_transpose3d``
- ``bmm``
- ``mm``
- ``baddbmm``
- ``addmm``
- ``addbmm``
- ``linear``
- ``matmul``
```

Author: Fixed

> - Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Quantization CPU ops that can leverage AMX:
```

Author: Fixed

> ``conv1d``,
> ``conv2d``,
> ``conv3d``,
> ``conv_transpose1d``,
> ``conv_transpose2d``,
> ``conv_transpose3d``,
> ``linear``

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- ``conv1d``
- ``conv2d``
- ``conv3d``
- ``conv_transpose1d``
- ``conv_transpose2d``
- ``conv_transpose3d``
- ``linear``
```

Author: Fixed

Confirm AMX is being utilized
------------------------------

> Set environment variable ``export ONEDNN_VERBOSE=1``, or use ``torch.backends.mkldnn.verbose`` to flexibly enable oneDNN to dump verbose messages.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Set environment variable to ``export ONEDNN_VERBOSE=1`` or use ``torch.backends.mkldnn.verbose`` to flexibly enable oneDNN to dump verbose messages.
```

Reviewer 6: I think `to` should not be added here because the specific environment variable we want to use here is `ONEDNN_VERBOSE`, whose value we set to `1`.

Author: Thanks for your comments. I will keep the original version for this sentence.
